Adel Ramezani
Sr. Software Engineer

 
 
Contact
     Address 
Roding, 93426 Germany
Phone 
(+49) 16091425699
E-mail 
adelramezani.jd@gmail.com
LinkedIn 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/adel-ramezani/
Technical Skills

Java, Scala, Python, JavaScript
Elasticsearch, Fuzziness, Optimizing search, Scoring Algorithm, Caching
Spring Boot, Spring Clouds, Horizontal Scaling, IaaS, PaaS, Restful API
Spark, Big Data, BigQuery
Docker, Kubernetes
Kafka, RabbitMQ
SQL, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MS-SQL, MongoDB, Oracle, Cassandra, DynamoDB,Arango,GraphQL
CI/CD, Jenkins, Ansible
Algorithms, OOP, ORM, JPA Microservices, Hibernate
Git, GitHub, GitLab
TDD, DDD, Event-Driven(EDA)
Fullstack Web Development, Responsive Web Design, Frontend, React, Angular
Application Security, IAM, Data Privacy, Vulnerability
Performance Tuning
Firebase, Grafana, JIRA	

AI Engineering Skills

Tensorflow, PyTorch, Keras
Machine Learning
Natural Language Processing
OpenAI
LLM, LLaMA, Ollama, GPT-4
LangChain, LlamaIndex, Hugging Face Transformers
Ollama, cpp
Prompt Engineering	

Cloud Technical Skills

Cloud Computing Architecture
Amazon S3, Athena, Lambda, RDS, IAM, EC2
Data Lakes
Event-Driven Programming
AWS API Gateway
Computing Serverless, Hybrid Cloud, Cloud-Native 
AzureSQL, Databricks	

Soft Skills

Complex Problem Solving
Statistical Analysis
Analytical Thinking
Creative design
Innovative
Communication skills
Agile/Scrum
Project management	

Languages

English – B2
Deutsch – A2
Persian – C2
Turkish – C1	



Highly experienced, solution-oriented professional with 15+ years of experience in Software engineering. Experience on developing and fine-tuning LLMs to create intelligent assistant/agents for customer engagement. I have successfully developed projects within cloud environments and excel in full-stack development. Creative, respond well to challenges and be comfortable working with ambiguity Analytical thinking, Self-motivated, dedicated, reliable as a team player with excellent interpersonal skills and learning ability. 


Experience
 	 	04/2023 - Current
SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER
MÜHLBAUER GMBH, Roding
❖	Integrated AI assistants into existing platforms, automating routine inquiries and improving response accuracy.
❖	Optimized reporting service performance, reducing processing time from hours to minutes, achieving a 10x speed improvement.
❖	Enhanced query performance in ArangoDB, improving efficiency by 100%.
❖	Designed and implemented an automated integration-testing tool, streamlining testing and improving overall software quality.
❖	Developed and fine-tuned large language models (LLMs) using Llama-3 to create intelligent chatbots for customer engagement.
❖	Deployed LLMs locally with Ollama, enhancing data privacy and reducing cloud dependencies.
❖	Managed prompt engineering, model evaluation, and continuous optimization to enhance chatbot performance.
❖	Developed a real-time system to process large volumes machines messages.
❖	Mentored junior developers, fostering professional growth and improving team productivity through knowledge-sharing and best practices.
❖	Delivered excellent client support, addressing concerns and implementing requested changes or software enhancements promptly.
❖	As a team member delivered solutions by estimating, designing, coding, testing, deploying, ensuring scalability, performance by the latest frameworks.

 	 	09/2020 - 02/2023
SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER AND TEAM LEAD
MYDIGIPAY (DIGIKALA), Tehran
❖	Developed AI-based actionable reports for marketing (including RFM, Customer Stickiness, Retention, and Customer Journey Analysis).
❖	Implemented real-time CDC streaming to deliver real-time systems.
❖	Implemented the dynamic ledger, significantly improved the financial process using Spring Boot.
❖	Communicated and engaged with the business lines using non-technical way and to gather/replay requirements
❖	Provided actionable insights to customer acquisition, operational efficiency and other KPIs of the Marketing.
❖	Implemented scalable data solutions provide enterprise-scale data transformation secure, best practice data integration strategies and approaches with Java, Spring Boot, Airflow, Spark, Kafka, Git, Jenkins.
❖	Implemented Real-time CDC using the Debezium and Kafka to ETL the MongoDB and MySQL data sources to the data-warehouse, and used many features of the Debezium and Kafka in converting MongoDB.
❖	Delivered solutions that leverage large-scale data ingestion, streaming & batch analytics with the Java, Apache Druid, Superset, Python, Spark, and Kafka.

 	 	05/2018 - 09/2020
SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER
SADAD INFORMATICS CORPORATION (MELLI BANK OF IRAN), Tehran
❖	Won the Annual Banking and Payment Industry Conference award in 2019.
❖	Reduced production time of the banking card launch by 6 months.
❖	Implemented multi-layer security and encryption for banking transactions, ensuring robust security.
❖	Used Elasticsearch for analyzing security event data over live banking switch for threat detection and response and tracking and analyzing application performance metrics as APM by using Prometheus.
❖	Implemented an SSM (Software Security Module).
❖	Implemented high performance banking switch.
❖	Collaborated with the technical teams of POS provider companies to provide payment transactions by transferring data in ISO-8583 format.
❖	Communicated with the bank’s departments to gather/replay requirements
❖	Provided the Big-data and cloud architecture for large-scale transactions with the Spring-cloud, DB2, Jenkins, and Kubernetes.
❖	Processed the Financial Clearance reports of Stakeholders.
❖	Ideated the Crypto Currency Switch and Beacon based Customer Attraction into Finodad Innovation Center.

 	 	11/2015 - 05/2018
SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER
CASPIAN (PARSIAN BANK), Tehran
❖	Successfully implemented the core banking OpenAPI platform, expanding the bank's digital capabilities using Java, Spring Boot, WSO2.
❖	Used Elasticsearch to centralize and analyze logs from multiple sources to monitor applications health and detect issues and tracking and analyzing application performance metrics as APM.
❖	Resolved uncontrolled database growth, archiving 20 TB of annual data.
❖	Optimized system performance, profiling bottlenecks in queries and caches.
❖	Led the Root Cause Analysis (RCA) committee to improve reliability.
❖	Enhanced core-banking functionality, identifying and resolving technical issues and bottlenecks in the system.
❖	Developed scalable, API-centric infrastructures for the OpenAPI platform.
❖	Collaborated with internal teams and management to design and implement OpenAPI application solutions.

 	 	02/2005 - 11/2015
SOFTWARE ENGINEER
BIP CO, Tehran
❖	Used Elasticsearch for providing fast and relevant search from terabytes of data and also fast face recognition as a vector database in CMS application.
❖	Designed and developed a distributed API-based communication system for the national oil-selling company, enhancing operational efficiency.
❖	Developed AI-based dashboards for the Civil Registration Organization, improving data visualization and decision-making.
❖	Implemented a next-generation text search system, improving search speed
❖	Developed graph-based search services and face recognition systems, showcasing expertise in advanced AI technologies.
❖	Developed scalable applications for oil selling and payment systems, as well as reporting dashboards for the Civil Registration Organization.
❖	Designed AI-based systems for text analysis and implemented distributed API-based applications for communication between branches.
Education
  	2014-05 - 2016-08	 	Master of Science: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
K.N.Toosi University - Tehran, Iran 
	1994-05 - 1999-03		Bachelor of Science: APPLIED MATHEMATICS
Tabriz University - Tabriz, Iran
Certificate
	SEP 2025	Amazon, Coursera	AWS Cloud Solutions Architect Professional
 	NOV 2023	 Kaggle	Intro to Machine Learning 
